## ML-camera-pattern-recognition
This project aims to explore the interesting library of openCV and learn to do a lot of cool stuff with our camera, in addtion to that, we want to build our own neural network with pytorch, and learnn how can we use a model trained in python in our c++ program with openCV.

One of the biggest motivations for me to start this project, is to learn how trained models save its data, which is basicaly saving the parameters its neural network uses (weights and biases) so once you hace those you only need to run forward propagation once in order to get your prediction, but as far as I am concerned, there are open source formats like ONNX (Open Neural Network Exchange) which gives us an standar for these projects, we will be learning more as we progress.

# Project overview
Our project will have 2 different modules, a pythhon one and a c++ one.

- Python module: Here we will use Pytorch to train a model in order to recognize colors and shapes, then we will export this into a .onnx file in order to use it again withour having to train it.

- C++ module: Here we will do our computation and programming with OpenCV, which I will give more detail once I get there, and it will use the model that we trained with pythorch, along with some other cool stuff openCV lets us already do.

# Project structure
- README
- trained_model (generated by python)
- Python -> model_trainer.py
         -> generate_data.py
         -> dataset directory structure
- cpp -> camera.hpp
      -> camera.cpp

## Python module
In order to create our neural network, first we need to generate its training data.

We will use openCV to generate that data, we will create forms using openCV in python with functions like cv.rectangle, cs.triangle, and generating our data with that.

Our script generate_data.py will do as it follows

1. It will create a folder called dataset
2. Inside, it will create folders for each subcategory (red_circle, blue square...), in order for pytorch to read later
3. Generate thousands of images in png format in each folder.

# Training data
As we mentioned before, training data will be generated by us using openCV in python, lets talk about that data itself.

1. Image format: .png extension, 64x64 pixels and 3 chanels BGR for colours (Blue, green,red)

2. dataset directory structure: /images with all images mixed and a labels.csv which tells us exactly what is each image, example: img_001.png, blue, circle


